to see African wild dogs in the flesh is
a real privilege it's thought there may
only be 3,000 left in the wild making
them one of the most endangered mammals
in Africa Aladin the alpha male where's
the radio collar it really is quite
fascinating to watch the alpha pair
always together always together
the man is constantly tailing behind her
wherever she goes
Aladin and feather have only been
together for four months but they're
already off to a flying start feather is
visibly pregnant but even though he's
now done the job she is pregnant with
his pups he doesn't leave her side for
one minute
it's unusual for an alpha male to be so
attentive at this stage Aladin seems to
be a particularly devoted partner
Taron has been monitoring feather and
aladdin's progress from the start so
tell me a little bit about how Aladdin
and feather behaved with each other as
the Alfa pair we've often seen him with
his chin resting on her ear and just
following her around and he's been
observed sleeping with his paw on her
not it's typical to what we call mate
guarding behaviour he's looking after
her he's making sure that she's that
she's fed and healthy when she's
pregnant
he continues to follow even though he's
already done his job and fathered her
litter and I think that's his way of
ensuring that his litter of paps
survives and is healthy Aladdin and
feather look like a solid couple and
that's good news for everyone else in
the group because as the Alfa pair it's
their job to provide the pack with new
pups so is that it are they completely
established and their roles are
determined and everything's hunky-dory
with the whole pile so far so good the
the key will be how successful they are
at raising that litter of pups as a pack
and the success of a pack always depends
on on the only reproductive success so
how well they work together to
successfully rear their young so they're
not home free not at all a little so
whenever you get a new Alfa pair it
doesn't mean anything until they've
successfully reared their first little
attack
oh gosh no pressure
fortunately for Aladdin and feather the
rest of the group will be there to lend
a helping hand the other adult females
are feather sisters and the male's come
from different packs
like um the rest behind us it's one big
happy family where everyone pitches in
feathers older sister bossy is the lead
hunter by sharing the workload the pack
runs like a well-oiled machine
all the whistle chasing coming he's
going and if the others forgotten to
drop oh well most of the time so you've
got wildebeest chasing and the wild dogs
what's wrong with that picture
when Aladdin and feathers pups are born
everyone will help to feed and protect
them here bigger families do better